# .52 Gal

A member of the shooter class, this weapon distinguishes itself by outputting enough ink in each shot to splat opponents in two hits, while still having a decent fire rate. The weapon's fire rate is lesser than the Splattershot Pro and greater than the .96 Gal . Its only major drawback is its poor accuracy and turf covering ability; many shots deviate far enough to the left or right that they miss the target. The .52 Gal and its close relative the .96 Gal share their visual design and high-damage, low-accuracy performance.

## Splatoon 3

- **Class**: Shooter
- **Sub**: Splash Wall
- **Special**: Killer Wail 5.1
- **Special points**: 200p
- **Range**: 55/100
- **Damage**: 75/100
- **Fire rate**: 25/100
- **Level**: 11
- **Added in**: Drizzle Season 2022 ( 1.1.0 )
- **Base damage**: 52 52 ( SRNW )
- **Other variant**: .52 Gal Deco

## Splatoon 2

- **Class**: Shooter
- **Sub**: Point Sensor
- **Special**: Baller
- **Special points**: 170p
- **Range**: 55/100
- **Damage**: 75/100
- **Fire rate**: 25/100
- **Level**: 14
- **Cost**: 9,500
- **Added in**: Initial Release ( 1.0.0 )
- **Base damage**: 52
- **Ink consumption**: 1.3%
- **Other variants**: .52 Gal Deco Kensa .52 Gal

## Splatoon

- **Class**: Shooter
- **Sub**: Splash Wall
- **Special**: Killer Wail
- **Special depletion**: 60%
- **Range**: 50/100
- **Damage**: 70/100
- **Fire rate**: 30/100
- **Level**: 5
- **Cost**: 3,000
- **Added in**: Initial Release ( 1.0.0 )
- **Base damage**: 52
- **Ink consumption**: 1.2%
- **Other variant**: .52 Gal Deco

## Appearance

The .52 is designed resembling a revolver-type grenade launcher , with a water cooler bottle as a base, taking the role of the weapon's chamber (or, in this case, ink tank). A grip, sight, and high-caliber gun barrel are clamped to the bottle. The parts surrounding the bottle are black plastic with pink accents, while the bottle matches the player's ink color. The sights are large and rectangular, and the barrel is black with pink polka-dot indents. The frame of the weapon is shaped slightly differently in Splatoon 3 , and the stock is tilted downwards.

When the .52 fires, it emits ripples in the air from its barrel, and produces a deep booming sound.

This weapon is notably very similar in appearance to the .96 Gal , the main difference being that the .52 has a shorter barrel, and in Splatoon 3 the .96 has a differently designed barrel, muzzle, sights, and underside of its frame.

## Strategy

For competitive tips about the .52 Gal

## Trivia

The .52 Gal's name may be a reference to its base damage per shot of 52. The .96 Gal 's damage per shot is not 96, however.

The .52 Gal was originally called the "5.2 Gallon" and came with the Inkstrike instead of the Killer Wail . This can be seen in an image from before Splatoon ' s release. The Inkstrike was later given to its alternate kit, the .52 Gal Deco .

The .52 Gal was one of the weapons that was available to use in the Splatoon 3 Splatfest World Premiere .

In the Splash Wall trial for Judd's Trial, the player is equipped with the .52 Gal.

The .52 Gal also happens to be the main weapon of Aloha, a member of the S4 in the Splatoon manga.

## Etymology

.52 Gal is short for .52 Gallon . "Gal" is also a play on Cal , the short form of Caliber , a term commonly used when describing the diameter of bullets for firearms.

.52ガロン .52 Garon has the same origin as the English name, but without Gallon shortened to Gal .

## Names in Other Languages

- **Japanese**: .52ガロン .52 Garon
- **Dutch**: .52 Kaliter
- **French**: Calibre 2000
- **German**: .52 Gallon
- **Italian**: Calibro 2000
- **Russian**: Струевик .52 Struyevik .52
- **Spanish**: Salpicadora 2000
- **Chinese (Simplified)**: .52加仑 .52 jiālún (Mandarin)
- **Chinese (Traditional)**: .52加侖 .52 jiālún (Mandarin)
- **Korean**: .52 갤런 .52 gaelleon
