# .96 Gal

As a member of the shooter class, this weapon distinguishes itself by sacrificing fire rate, ink efficiency, mobility, and accuracy for powerful shots and long range, being the ink-thirstiest and slowest of all regular shooters. The .96 Gal and its close relative the .52 Gal share their visual design and high-damage, low-accuracy performance.

## Splatoon 3

- **Class**: Shooter
- **Sub**: Sprinkler
- **Special**: Ink Vac
- **Special points**: 190p
- **Range**: 74/100
- **Damage**: 80/100
- **Fire rate**: 10/100
- **Level**: 17
- **Added in**: Drizzle Season 2022 ( 1.1.0 )
- **Base damage**: 62 85 ( SRNW )
- **Other variants**: .96 Gal Deco Clawz .96 Gal

## Splatoon 2

- **Class**: Shooter
- **Sub**: Sprinkler
- **Special**: Ink Armor
- **Special points**: 190p
- **Range**: 74/100
- **Damage**: 80/100
- **Fire rate**: 10/100
- **Level**: 21
- **Cost**: 12,600
- **Added in**: Initial Release ( 1.0.0 )
- **Base damage**: 62
- **Ink consumption**: 2.5%
- **Other variant**: .96 Gal Deco

## Splatoon

- **Class**: Shooter
- **Sub**: Sprinkler
- **Special**: Echolocator
- **Special depletion**: 40%
- **Range**: 68/100
- **Damage**: 70/100
- **Fire rate**: 15/100
- **Level**: 12
- **Cost**: 7,600
- **Added in**: Initial Release ( 1.0.0 )
- **Base damage**: 52
- **Ink consumption**: 2.5%
- **Other variant**: .96 Gal Deco

## Appearance

The .96 is designed resembling a revolver-type grenade launcher , with a water cooler bottle as a base, taking the role of the weapon's chamber (or, in this case, ink tank). A grip, sight, and high-caliber gun barrel are clamped to the bottle. The parts surrounding the bottle are black plastic with pink accents, while the bottle matches the player's ink color. In Splatoon and Splatoon 2 , the sights are large and rectangular, and the barrel is black with pink polka-dot indents, while in Splatoon 3 the sights are smaller, more rounded, and have a glass element, and the barrel is transparent and filled with light-colored gravel or powder, with a metal muzzle and black stand attached. The frame of the weapon, which includes the sights and stock, is shaped differently in Splatoon 3 .

When the .96 fires, it emits large ripples in the air from its barrel, and produces a deep booming sound.

This weapon is notably very similar in appearance to the .52 Gal , the main difference being that the .96 has a longer barrel, and in Splatoon 3 has a differently designed barrel, muzzle, sights, and underside of its frame.

## Strategy

For competitive tips about the .96 Gal

## Trivia

The .96 Gal, the .52 Gal, and their variants are created by Deco .

In all three games, the .96 Gal has had Sprinkler as its sub weapon and various forms of a supportive-based special weapon.

Unlike the .52 Gal, which has consistently dealt 52 damage per shot throughout the Splatoon series, the .96 Gal has never dealt 96 damage per shot to match its name.

## Etymology

.96 Gal is short for .96 Gallon . "Gal" is also a play on Cal , the short form of Caliber, a term commonly used when describing the diameter of bullets for firearms.

.96ガロン .96 Garon has the same origin as the English name, but without Gallon shortened to Gal .

## Names in Other Languages

- **Japanese**: .96ガロン .96 garon
- **Dutch**: .96 Kaliter
- **French**: Calibre 3000
- **German**: .96 Gallon
- **Italian**: Calibro 3000
- **Russian**: Струевик .96 Struyevik .96
- **Spanish**: Salpicadora 3000
- **Chinese (Simplified)**: .96加仑 .96 jiālún (Mandarin)
- **Chinese (Traditional)**: .96加侖 .96 jiālún (Mandarin)
- **Korean**: .96 갤런 .96 gaelleon
